use linkedin video and the linkedin
voice messages i've been yelling about
this for like
years all right if you use the linkedin
videos and the linkedin voice messages
you'll get
people to connect with you more you'll
get more meetings and
you'll connect with people that probably
that we're not responding to you in the
first place
[Music]
welcome to the powder king podcast where
today we're going to be sharing with you
how the linkedin algorithm works and how
to make it work for you
the best ways to reach out and connect
with potential sales prospects
and how to build a list of potential
clients on linkedin
who are waiting to learn more about you
and want to learn more about your
business
i'm your host matt hunkler and this is
the powder cake podcast the show that
plugs you
into the massive opportunities in
startups and innovation
in tech hubs beyond silicon valley that
are exploding with potential
in today's episode you're going to hear
an interview and live q a that we hosted
with some of the leading experts using
linkedin that can help you really reach
your full potential with this platform
that is just
exploding with growth right now and tons
of opportunity
our first guest will be morgan j ingram
the director of sales execution and
evolution at j barrow sales training
joining him on the show is jake dunlap
who is the founder ceo and b2b
sales leader at scaled consulting and we
have a bunch of great guests lined up
for future virtual events like this one
that you're about to listen to so before
i get into more of this show
be sure to check out our upcoming live
virtual events versions of the podcast
with open q a opportunities to connect
with the community
and expert advice by going on over to
powderkeg.com
events now our first guest morgan ingram
is the director of sales and execution
and evolution
at j barrow's sales training where he
focuses on delivering to sales
development teams
to enhance their skill sets and
performance morgan is also a
motivational speaker that has been
nominated for
tedx as well as number of other
great speaking opportunities morgan is
one of the foremost leaders
thought leaders on linkedin and he's
joined today by jake dunlap the founder
and ceo of scaled
consulting he's a c-level sales leader
entrepreneur with more than a decade of
experience the thing i love about
jake is that he applies it right there
for himself with his own linkedin but
also leads incredible
scaled sales teams for repeatable
sustainable sales
methods i hope you enjoyed this
conversation as much as i did
and got as much out of it there is a ton
of actionable advice here
even if you're not in sales this is
stuff that you really need to know
hope you enjoy the show and i was
wondering if you could start with just
kind of
telling us a little bit about your story
of how you first discovered linkedin as
a platform to help
drive your own career yeah so i
read a book called how to get your dream
job by
pete lyman back my sophomore year
in college and at the time
when i was a sophomore in college there
really wasn't a lot of activity on
linkedin nobody was building their brand
at all
the content that was there was mostly
articles however
what i realized is in that book it talks
about how you could reach out to
individuals for informational interviews
and i found that to be intriguing
because at the time i wanted to be a
sports agent so
you all probably in the comments have
seen jerry maguire show me the money
well that that was
me i was like yo i'm gonna be a sports
and i'm gonna figure this out so
what i did is i went on linkedin and i
blind connected with almost every single
person that was in the sports industry
so
the atlanta hawks the atlanta falcons
the nba like everybody and so what i did
is
at the time when you could connect with
people immediately normally their number
was there
or their email was there and so i would
send 20
emails a day to figure out if i could
get informational interviews from
individuals to learn
from them because i was in college and i
just was like hey i'm i'm just looking
to learn
15 20 minute conversation is all i'm
asking for at the end of the day
and so what i gained from linkedin is
that it was a place
to learn from individuals and
have tons of resources and tons of
experience and so i was
super fortunate i was able to talk to
the owner of the atlanta hawks the vp of
sales at the nba
the general manager at fox sports south
and many others that i've been
blessed to network with and it was an
incredible experience and so
that's where i really started leveraging
linkedin not even creating content just
connect with people because they had
information that
i wanted to learn about well i guess
then i i really only have one question
which is can you show me the money yeah
you know i got you i got you on that man
i ain't gonna be i didn't even be a
sports agent but
you know i learned a lot from those
individuals i'll tell you that
yeah can you tell me about um that
experience uh when you were kind of
connecting you you mentioned connecting
with the owner of the atlanta hawks
you mentioned some of the things you
learned through connecting with people
on linkedin um
first of all that strategy of just kind
of blind connecting to
everyone in your industry is that a
strategy that you would recommend
for linkedin today yeah i know jake
i know jake's gonna have a comment on
this when he comes on so
i'm going to go ahead and and go ahead
and reinforce a point that he's already
going to make so
the blind connect has a higher
acceptance rate it's crazy i didn't
believe him
but it does and i've been doing it
myself in terms of connecting with
people and
it seemed to be working however i would
recommend to do a personalization
note right personalized note if you're
looking to connect with someone that
maybe you have listened to their podcast
or you've read their book
then yeah you would do that i sent one
to chris voss the other day
and i watched his master class and i was
like hey man your masterclass was great
it was one of the best online courses
that i've ever watched
and i also mentioned that there was a
certain part in there that i enjoyed
and that's what helped create a dialogue
with him right so if you watch something
or you listen to something
then absolutely put that as a
personalized note but the blank
connection request still stands true
today
it's very interesting but it does work
out and just so everyone
is on the same page what we're talking
about uh blind connect can you kind of
explain what that is
yeah so blind connect all that means at
the end of the day is you don't add
a personalized note inside of your
connection request
so that means that you just click
connect and you immediately connect with
that person
i appreciate you you kind of uh getting
into detail there so
i know you've transitioned your career
now into
sales training just based on the success
that you had
leveraging linkedin and other strategies
can you talk about how linkedin
fits into a broader set of of tactics
for a sales strategy absolutely so i'm
going to turn to
the chat real quick i got a question for
you all put a
one for me put a one for me if you use
linkedin as of today to prospect or to
sell
oh i love this cool so we got we got a
lot of people right here that are
putting ones
flying the chat all right so we got a
lot of ones here
boom so we got a lot of stuff here so
you could put two in here as well if
you're like hey morgan this is something
i don't normally do i like to keep my
network sacred obviously like to hear
from you all
and i know everyone's gonna have
different ways of seeing this but
how i see linkedin as of today so there
was a report i saw two weeks ago
and this is due to the current climate
look what's happening now
it's that there was a 75 increase in
new and unique messaging in terms of
prospecting
and then also said that there's a 48
increase in linkedin activity
so what what that means to me when i
read that data
is that more people are on linkedin now
more than ever
because you're at home you're not
traveling as much
and linkedin is one of the best ways to
connect with someone because i see
linkedin as a campfire
everyone is there right now everyone is
seeking out advice everyone's trying to
figure out what the next steps are
everyone's trying to figure out how to
advance my career right now
because we're all at home looking at the
screen so if you're able to
connect with your buyers on this
platform
and engage them in a way that's
different than what everyone else is
doing that's how you're able to stand
out to get meetings
and linkedin has been a main channel for
me
right now to schedule meetings it's been
a main channel for the clients that i've
worked with the schedule meetings
because everyone is there so i'm always
gonna
i always want to be where the people are
at and that's why
linkedin is a campfire right now and
everyone should consider
selling prospecting more so on linkedin
than now north america
uh morgan thanks for sharing your story
we're gonna jump into our next guest
and bring bring them on to the show and
our next guest is a c-level sales leader
and is an entrepreneur with more than a
decade of experience come to the show
it's great to have you here man
yeah i'm looking forward to it it's a
great great first couple of sessions i i
know i had some takeaways i was taking
some notes over here too
awesome hey i love that you're ever the
student i know you're always
experimenting with all these things
and always kind of pushing the limits of
the platform uh can you talk a little
bit about when
you started to realize that linkedin was
it i think i recently saw that you said
you know if you're in sales you should
be spending more than 50
of your time if you're in b2b sales on
linkedin
when did you start to realize that's the
that's the basket you need to be putting
a lot of your eggs in
yeah it was i mean it was actually a
very specific uh
point in time where it was like was it
may of 2018
when gdpr came out if you guys remember
gdpr it was
it's just a data privacy rule in the us
we don't really believe in these things
but
in other parts of the world they believe
in them they have castle in canada and
stuff
so so we we wrote we kind of dissected
the law the the whole law we wrote this
beautiful like 10 page ebook for
marketing and for sales leaders like if
you're in marketing and sales like
this is like the definitive guide and
you know we pushed it on social media we
were doing a blog post every week
and like engagement was okay and then
finally what i realized is like look
this is just not how people want to
consume information anymore
you know the idea if you put up ebooks
you put up blogs you put up these things
and so you know what what i quickly
realized was
this is not current consumer behavior
and so we literally between june of 2018
and june of 2019 we put out
zero ebooks put out zero blogs and went
to short form content right and you know
the
and just started to really focus on how
do you build value you know had a chance
to
you know we kind of went down the whole
like all in on social media really and i
think we just also saw that linkedin
was just prime that there was so few
people that were producing content it
was just silly
and so as we started to do that we
started to see traction quick
inbound leads coming in um but it didn't
look and feel like what you're supposed
to do as a consulting firm so that was
really like
our tipping tipping point was you know i
just i got fed up
like this is a waste of time i remember
that exact time period in 2018
and uh clearly it's paying off for you
what is the thing right now
on linkedin that you and your team are
kind of
going all in on in terms of either one
of the new features
or one of the new types of content or
strategy or outreach techniques
that's really working for scale yeah i
mean i'll try to talk through with kind
of like a mix of different strategies
things we're testing and then algorithm
changes that i think are important for
anyone who's who's producing content
here
um so i guess you know what i'll start
actually maybe i'll start with the
algorithm stuff so in on may 12th
linkedin did a major update to the
algorithm
um where they basically added in a major
component that's called
dwell time and so what dwell time looks
at is how long
are people like actually having and by
the way this is what tick tock does
instagram
it's more of like a maturation metric as
opposed to vanity like likes and
comments and things
and so what that means is that look you
know if you're writing a super short
form posts that post that's not
vulnerable
etc that it's going to be tough to get
traction and so
um dwell time is what we're trying to
play with right now is like what is like
how is the algorithm thinking about it
so
imagine now it's images with text in it
so it's like you read it you do that
i i tried this yesterday morgan gave me
about it i did a post with 37
emojis in it
and so like i was like i don't know
maybe that'll get people to do it so
we're testing with different
uh you know we're testing with like
different ways to to focus on this idea
and we've also seen a correlation so we
have a data partner that can pull in
personal page data so we look at
data from tens of thousands of posts and
a direct correlation between reshare and
then linkedin kind of keeping it going
so
we're really focused on you know how do
you create type of content that people
are going to want to like
look at or social media we're so used to
this scroll and then the type of content
that people would want to click that
that that share button and and that's
really big for us on the content side
on the the demand gen side so we're a
sales consulting firm and so what that
means is
we are always trying for our clients to
see what's next for demand gen
and what that really means is we are
just front loading almost every single
sequence
with linkedin activity connect day one
take a look at did they change jobs are
they posting
did they follow your company day one
engage or comment on post because you'll
be shocked
so many executives get zero comments and
i because you know i was worth a group
this were two different groups this
morning
most executives get no comments so
what's better you start calling and
emailing somebody
or you're the first person that comment
on their post and then and then oh my
gosh
you slow play it and you wait four days
and then you like or comment another
post they are gonna immediately remember
who you are and then you dm
hey you know your your stuff popped up
in my feed it seems like you're talking
about this
this is what we do if there's interest
would be great to maybe walk you through
it if not enjoying the content so
you know all sequences now should start
with if they're if they are active on
linkedin if not skip straight to calls
and emails
and direct mail and whatever but if they
are why not try to build a little bit of
relationship affinity
because i'm telling you any executive
that's getting no comments when you
comment on their post and you do it
twice
they immediately are like uh who's
ashley watkins
like i don't know so if i'm in sales
that's the play
is like can i can i develop some type of
affinity with this person
and then move into what we would
traditionally look as like more direct
outbound
activities i love that get on the radar
first before you
reach out with a more direct ask that's
it hey matt here again
after having the opportunity to
interview both morgan and
jake briefly we got to hear some
valuable thoughts and questions from a
great lineup of powder kick members
who had problems uh and questions for
our guests on the show
and so we get into a couple of really
interesting topics here
so here's that q a and discussion our
guests are
our question askers can be uh audio only
what's your question for uh jake andrew
hey if i can take one quick second to
give a great shout out to
matt matt when i way back when i was
podcasting you were my very first guest
on
a podcast that i had years years ago so
it's oh my gosh it's great to be here
it had to be like uh oh my gosh probably
eight or nine years ago at this point
i think it was maybe even ten yeah about
about that long
but jake my question for you is
kind of offline from what we're talking
about today i saw that you posted about
hiring a uh full-time vp
of marketing or sales and he said it's
not necessarily the best way for a
company to go or maybe not the best way
to
is there a short quick answer to um
what uh better alternatives for a
company trying to boost their sales
through
enhancing their management team looks
like to you
yeah and then yeah obviously hire
linkedin expert right so that's my
relevant to this
but but the the side is that look sales
is the only organization that does not
use experts to scale
marketing finance operations all higher
and outside experts at different stages
of scaling
so sales is like you know here's some
here's maybe you get some training you
bring in morgan and good luck
right and and i feel like as we grow
forward we need an outbound optimization
agency
which you know to optimize our outbound
efforts right we need an agency that
looks at optimizing our sales cycle at
all times dell's operations isn't doing
that sales enablement isn't doing that
they're looking once every six or 12
months and we've got to start to run
our sales organizations more like a
performance organization
versus a big initiative then we kind of
like set it and forget it
and it's just we can't keep up with
buyers that way and so being able to
hire expert leadership at those
different stages of scaling can help you
to cheat through that
versus a vp that is only relevant for
you for
six to seven eight months and then
you're on to the next one but you keep
them for six months then you go hire
another one for six months you fire that
one after nine months so
i just think that there's smarter ways
to scale as we look forward
good question thank you good answer yeah
our next question is from megan mcnames
and this is one
uh that i think i'd be interested in
everyone's uh perspective on this
um i'll bring megan here on the shadow
and uh hopefully
she can hear us megan can you hear us
yes i can hey welcome to the show what's
your uh
question for our guest today yeah well
my question is that
um i get a lot of pressure from pretty
much every organization i've ever worked
for
to participate in their marketing
initiatives on linkedin by like changing
my cover photo
or posting content that they send me and
want me to post that's related to their
marketing initiatives
i'm just wondering does this have any
benefit for me other than
you know i'm supporting my company which
i love doing but do i get something out
of that
is there some way i can leverage that
like how can i maximize my own benefit
when i'm doing that work on behalf of my
marketing team morgan is there are there
any great company campaigns that you've
seen
um work really well in terms of
companies that have engaged
their entire employee base to really
make an impact on linkedin
i think the company that that they don't
do as much anymore but drift drift did a
fantastic job doing this they would have
everybody be like all right this is the
campaign that we're running and they
would have people doing videos
doing post posts and their own voice
just as like anna was saying
so that's something that i would
definitely be focused on when your
company is like hey
here's the content we need you to go put
out it's like cool i'll just add my own
context around that
so it isn't just another post that's out
there and it's part of the noise
it's something that will stand out so
yeah drift drift did it the best they
would be like hey this is a campaign and
they would have every single person do a
video
but it was in their voice and it stood
out
i love that jake you have any other
perspective on
the linkedin algorithm and what's kind
of your philosophy
on the algorithm do you do you play to
the algorithm do you try to chase the
algorithm
do you kind of stay tried and true and i
would love everyone's perspective on
this feel free to
to weigh in it's both meaning you know
it's about understanding it but also
about like
like video for example under indexes big
time on linkedin
massively right if you want to get likes
and engagement don't post videos unless
it's a meme video
about a a soldier meeting his daughter
for the first time
or a woman walking for the first time
then your video get a lot of traction
but but it doesn't mean you don't do it
because you got to think about you're
building an audience you're building a
name for yourself and a reputation in
your industry and so
video gives people different touch
points so i know when we put out a video
you know we put out an audio or whatever
it is um it's not going to do quite as
well so for us it's a mix yes like i
said
we tried 37 emojis then we're trying
these texts it's like we're trying to
understand it but it doesn't mean that
every post is a pander to the algorithm
right and and i and i feel like that's
because you want to create community
you know diversity and types of content
ways to interact so so that that's how
we approach it it's
scaled any other perspectives there
i have a perspective jake and i were
talking about this the other night so
my my thing is you know i've been
studying it i've been looking at it i've
been analyzing it as well
jake is correct about the videos however
it's a having a mix of content
was jake is saying and so just because
your video isn't getting a lot of views
that doesn't mean that it's not valuable
i i truly believe that the views
of the video are more valuable than
sometimes your text
post views and here's why so when you
see someone on video
it creates a relation with them so when
i started a youtube channel
like years ago people felt like they
knew me and i'm like yo i don't know you
but the thing is i created so many
videos that i created that affinity that
bond
with the viewer so even though it's not
getting a lot of views i wouldn't say
don't do video i would say add it as
part of your strategy
but do more short form posts i've been
playing around with this too
and the highest engagement post that
i've had so far it literally was a
sentence
and it blew up and i was like all right
cool i guess that's what the album likes
they like short form
tweet like content and then also
pictures
have high engagement with context around
it also are great to put
and the algorithm likes that as well so
these are just things to consider
when you're looking at the algorithm and
this is what i have seen success
success with and also other people that
i know are seeing success with it as
well
and also just telling your story just as
anna was talking about earlier is
critical as well
i want to wrap up here with with all of
our guests with a lightning round
your top 10 second tip and
powder keg is all about the untapped
potential in tech communities beyond
silicon valley
uh we have an amazing community here
jake would you start us off uh with your
10-second
top tip for linkedin ten-second top tip
ten seconds okay i got it
all right so for me look here's what
i'll say when you google your name
there's a very high likelihood linkedin
is the number one result
and you have a digital presence you have
a reputation whether you want to pay
attention to it not
to it or not and so all of you are in
this game for the long haul you're
building a career and a life
and the network that you build on
linkedin is unlike anything you'll ever
be able to build physically
and so my advice like that is is the
number one reason your reputation is
digital
you have to get involved and jake if
people want to find you
online what's the best way to connect i
mean i've
got to say linkedin right yeah i mean
it's pretty simple jake dunlap do you
and lap
um go check us out again you can go to
jake dunlap.com you can get access to
all our different social channels as
well
as well there too and thank again thanks
again for having me on it was really
good meeting all of you as well too
absolutely thanks for thanks for being
here jake morgan what's your top tip for
linkedin
use linkedin video and the linkedin
voice messages i've been yelling about
this for
like years all right if you use the
linkedin videos and the linkedin voice
messages you'll get
people to connect with you more you'll
get more meetings and
you'll connect with people that probably
that we are not responding to you in the
first place so
linkedin videos linkedin voice messages
that's my hot tip we've seen conversions
from 20 30 40
and on by using this technique so that's
that's my go-to tip right there
i love that i have not tested the waters
there yet morgan so
this is this is going to be me tipping
the scale and i'm going to let you know
how it goes
all right man and where can people find
you morgan
yeah so linkedin super simple morgan j
ingram on linkedin if you want to
connect and you have any further
questions
awesome man thanks for being here today
that's it for today's show thank you so
much for listening
also huge thanks to our guests morgan
ingram and jake dunlap
please go check them out at jbarrows.com
and scaled.com that's
s-k-a-l-e-d dot com and for links to
their social profiles and the other
people
companies and resources mentioned in
this episode please head on over to
powderkeg.com and check out the show
notes
while you're there would you like to
discover even more interesting companies
stories and strategies to help you reach
your full potential
then you should definitely be getting
the inside scoop each week with powder
cake's hand curated newsletter the spark
that's delivered to your inbox every
thursday with the tech news and
opportunities outside of silicon valley
that you really need to know
you can just go to powderkeg.com and
sign up right on the home page it's
right there at the very
top and each thursday you're going to
get an email directly from me with the
most important stories
trends and companies in tech and it's
curated by some of the most connected
people in tech hubs
between the coasts and in sort of the
unvalley of
america and of course my team at powder
keg as well and you're going to find a
ton of insights that you're
not going to find anywhere else it's
totally free and again it's just
powderkeg.com
p-o-w-d-e-r-k-e-g powder keg all one
word dot com
and to be among the first to hear the
stories about entrepreneurs investors
and other tech leaders outside of
silicon valley give us a subscribe
on itunes powdercake.com itunes drop us
a review while you're there
uh thank you if you've already done that
and we'll catch you next time on the
powder keg podcast
[Music]
you